# Features of C

### 1. Simple, Structural and Procedural

C is a simple programming language that provides keywords, variables, library functions, data types, etc and maintains a structured approach i.e., breaking a problem into parts and carrying out instructions step by step. 

### 2. Speed and Efficiency

Since C is a middle-level [statically typed language](https://telegra.ph/Statically-vs-Dynamically-typed-languages-02-17) and comparitively less feature rich than modern programming languages, it becomes the fastest language still in use.

C provides programmers access to direct manipulation with the computer hardware but higher-level languages do not allow this.

### 3. Modularity and Rich Library functions

The abiility to use C code as libraries for future usage is referred to as modularity. C language comes with many such robust libraries and functions that facilitates in solving common problems with ease.

### 4. General Purpose

It simply means that C can be used to build programs that isn't specialized for anything specific. e.g., C can be used to make an operating system as well as a calculator program unlike e.g., HTML which can only be used to build websites

### 5. Rich set of built-in operators

C provides with a rich set of built-in operators

### 6. Machine independent/ Portable

C programs written for any platform can be run and compiled on any system with little to no changes in source code.

### 7. Extensibility

Adopting more features into existing C code is feasible

### 8. Memory Management

C allows Dynamic memory allocation i.e., we can allocate or deallocate a block of memory during the run-time of a program

### 9. Pointers

C provides pointers that allows us to directly interact with the memory. We can use pointers for memory, structures, functions, array, etc.
