# Introduction to the C programming language

Programming is the process of giving a computer a series of instructions to be followed.

#### **C is a  General-purpose  computer programming language**

*Now what does that mean?*

It simply means that C can be used to build programs that isn't specialized for anything specific. e.g., C can be used to make an operating system as well as a calculator program unlike e.g., HTML which can only be used to build websites

**C language was developed at AT & T's Bell Laboratories in the US by Dennis Ritchie in 1972.**

#### So it's been 50 years now. What makes C still relevant?

1. C being "simple"  and structure oriented succeeds in teaching you the core basics of computer programming which would undoubtedly assist you  to handle the modern programming languages more efficiently.

2. Due to the following reasons, the C programming language was used to develop all modern Operating systems:
   
   - Since C being simple (by simple, I didn't mean *easy*) leaves  entities like Memory management to the programmer.
   
   - No runtime dependencies. Unlike C++, Java, C# and others, [C has absolutely no runtime dependencies](https://prilik.com/blog/post/c-is-not-dependency-free/). It doesn't expect a memory manager!
   
   - C is perfectly suitable at efficient byte level manipulation. That is, copying data to different areas, flipping bits around, and processing data in small amounts.
   
   All this simply means C being a middle level language, provides high level constructs while still providing low level details that are closer to assembly language, and hence, the system. Because of this, using C is fairly easy in OS development. This is one of the primary reasons why it is the most commonly used: Because the C programming language was originally designed for system level and embedded software development.

3. C thus becomes the "fastest" programming language to date.

> Happy Coding!
